(GH-2124)(Docs) Logging doc (#2155)
puppetlabs/bolt: documentation/logs.md

# Logs

Bolt supports multiple log levels. You can configure the log level from the CLI,
or in a project configuration file. Supported logging levels, in order from most

> to least information logged, are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error`.

Reviewer: Technically speaking `fatal` is also a valid log level, but it's only useful if you only want to see `emerg` and `critical` messages from a Puppet manifest or apply block. We don't actually use it in Bolt code. I'm not sure if that means we should include it or not - I think it's fine to leave it out.

Author: Yeah, Tom mentioned that we don't use it, so I opted to leave it out. The fact that it will return stuff from a puppet manifest makes me wonder if we should include it though.... Maybe I'll add a note with a link to the puppet docs for that... I'll do some digging and figure that out.

Author: Okay, I've added in a section for fatal logs

to your [project configuration file](configuring_bolt.md#project-level-configuration).

Use `level` to set the log level. Available log levels are `trace`, `debug`,
`info`, `warn`, and `error`. For example:

```yaml
# bolt-project.yaml
name: lotsalogs

log:
  console:
    level: debug
```

If you want to write a log to a file, add a map with the file destination to the
log mapping. For example, the following `bolt-project.yaml` file writes `info`
and `trace` level logs to a `logs` directory in the Bolt project:

```yaml
# bolt-project.yaml
name: lotsalogs

log:
  "logs/trace.log":
    append: false
    level: trace
  "logs/info.log":
    append: false
    level: info
```

Set the `append` key to `false` if you want to overwrite the file on each run,
or `true` if you want to append to the existing file.
 
> **Note**: The directory you set for logging must exist, and Bolt must have
> permission to write to it.

## Log levels

### `trace`

Trace logs contain the most detailed information for actions run on individual
targets. For example, the logs include each command run on a target, each step
of compiling a manifest for an apply block, and information about establishing

> connections with targets.

Reviewer: I'm not sure readers will find this distinction useful, but the team thinks of trace as "why Bolt is doing what it's doing" while debug is just "what Bolt's doing"

information on how Bolt locates the project to load, where different content is
loaded from, and information about actions run on each individual target.

Debug logs are useful for troubleshooting a problem with a plan or the way
you're using Bolt. You can use debug logs for a high-level understanding of what
actions Bolt is running on individual targets, or to find out where Bolt is
loading data from.

### `info`

Info logs give you a high-level overview of what Bolt is doing. For example, an
info log contains information about which Bolt project is loaded, when different
actions run on targets start and finish, and results from actions run on
targets.

Info logs are useful when you want to see the results for an action in a Bolt
execution. They're also useful for a high-level understanding of what Bolt is
doing.

### `warn`

Warn logs contain warnings about deprecations and potentially harmful situations
that might affect your Bolt run, even though they don't prevent Bolt from
executing. For example, Bolt warns you if your inventory file includes an
unsupported transport configuration that might result in Bolt connecting to
targets in a way that you don’t expect.

> Bolt always prints warnings to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bolt prints warnings to the console by default.
```

Use a warn log if you're trying to find out if you're using Bolt in a way that
might result in unexpected behavior, or to see if you're using a deprecated
feature.

### `error`

Error logs contain messages for errors that Bolt encountered during execution.
For example, Bolt prints an error if a PuppetDB query fails.

Bolt always prints errors to the console.

Use an error log if you want to see errors that Bolt raised during a Bolt run.

## Using `verbose` logging

> Bolt's `run`, `file upload`, and `file download` commands include the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bolt's `(command | plan | script | task) run` and `file (upload | dowload)` commands include the
```

Reviewer: The original wording just made it sound like there was a `bolt run` command - I'm not sure if this is clearer or not, but some other syntax might be more useufl.

Author: Okay, let me take another swing at this
